Remove any page numbers, titles, copyright info, headers, and non-content text. Return only the main body content *exactly as written*, without rewording or summarizing.

Text:
Sustainable Operations and Computers 3 (2022) 33–42 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Sustainable Operations and Computers journal homepage: http://www.k eaipublishing.com/en/journals/sustainable-operations-and-computer s/ 
3D printing –A review of processes, materials and applications in industry 4.0 Anketa Jandyal, Ikshita Chaturvedi, Ishika Wazir, Ankush Raina, PhD, Mir Irfan Ul Haq, PhD /uni2217 School of Mechanical Engineering, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, Katra, Jammu and Kashmir 182320, India /a.sc /r.sc /t.sc /i.sc /c.sc /l.sc /e.sc /i.sc /n.sc /f.sc /o.sc Keywords: 3D printing Materials Polymers Industry 4.0 Additive manufacturing Applications Manufacturing /a.sc /b.sc /s.sc /t.sc /r.sc /a.sc /c.sc /t.sc 3D printing, unlike other manufacturing processes, being an additive process has emerged as a viable technol- ogy for the production of engineering components. The aspects associated with 3D printing such as less material wastage, ease of manufacturing, less human involvement, very less post processing and energy e/uniFB03ciency makes the process sustainable for industrial use. The paper discusses numerous 3D printing processes, their advantages and disadvantages. A comprehensive description of di/uniFB00erent materials compatible for each type of 3D printing process is presented. The paper also presents the various application areas of each type of process. A dedicated section on industry 4.0 has also been included. The literature studied revealed that although the /uniFB01eld of 3D print- ing has evolved to a great extent, there are still issues that need to be addressed such as material incompatibility and the cost of the materials. Future research could be undertaken to develop and modify the processes to suit a broad range of materials. To broaden the range of applications for 3D printed parts, more focus needs to be laid on developing cost e/uniFB00ective printer technologies and materials compatible for these printers. 1. Introduction The very basic question that comes to our mind regarding the /uniFB01eld of manufacturing is that how do we make stu/uniFB00 or how do we proceed from materials into something that we want to use, buy or consume in any way. The /uniFB01rst way to make something is subtractive manufacturing- where we begin from raw material and proceed towards the desired product. Then the next type of manufacturing is called forming- in which a block of material undergoes changes into its dimensions when force is applied. The third type of technology of making things is casting- where the material in solid form is melted into liquid form, the liq- uid metal is then poured into a speci/uniFB01c mold to obtain the object. The fourth way of manufacturing is Additive manufacturing (AM) wherein the parts are developed additively layer by layer [54 , 56] . The manufacturing process of additive is superior compared to the traditional ways of manufacturing as less material is wasted during manufacturing in comparison to subtrac- tive methods and the forming processes. These methods being expensive are primar- ily used for the making of components where precision is extremely important. In forming, the low cost per piece is one of the main advantages [54] . This paper will discuss the use of additive manufacturing technology, type of 3D printing processes, their advantages and disadvantages- a complete description of di/uniFB00erent materials compatible for each type of 3D printing process to be discussed. The literature studied revealed that although the /uniFB01eld of 3D printing has evolved to a great extent, there are still issues that need to be addressed such as material incompatibility and the cost of the materials. It has also been found that to broaden the range of applications for 3D printed parts, more focus needs to be laid on developing cost e/uniFB00ective printer technologies and materials compatible for these printers. From the literature concluded 3D printing is not only a viable alterna/uniFB00ive to the tradition manufacturing processes but also is a sustainable technology that is suitable for the industry 4.0. 

Full paper is here Remove any page numbers, titles, copyright info, headers, and non-content text. Return only the main body content *exactly as written*, without rewording or summarizing.

Text:
AM and 3D printing are umbrella words that cover a wide range of processes for creating three-dimensional prototypes and structures from digital /uniFB01les. The solid modelling component of Computer-Aided Design is the basis for additive technologies. This solid modelling data is used by additive models to create layers of extremely thin cross-sectional areas, which entitle manufacturing of intricate and complex shapes and surfaces that are very di/uniFB03cult to achieve by using conventional methods [1] . One will conclude a machine as a 3D printer if it comprises the three properties that are, three-dimensional, additive, and layer-based. An ad- ditive process is adding di/uniFB00erent substances to make the desired sub- /uni2217 Corresponding author. E-mail address: haqmechanical@gmail.com (M.I. Ul Haq). stance. Let’s say if we want to bake cupcakes, we take an empty bowl and add ingredients, one by one until we get the /uniFB01nished batter, this is an additive way to make it. Another way to make a cupcake is, we can buy a big cake and cut away everything to give it the shape of a cupcake. This is a subtractive process, wherever we tend to begin from a bigger part and take away everything that’s not needed. Examples of subtrac- tive manufacturing would be manual wood carving, CNC machining or laser cutting, etc. In 3D printing, which is basically an additive manufacturing process, we start with the fundamental design of the part we want to model [ 55 ]. The said design is created on a computer software that is attachable to 3D printers. This software then generates a special type of /uniFB01le to be sent to the printer. The 3D printer reads that /uniFB01le and creates the product by adjoining one layer over the other [ 22 ]. Almost every process in 3D printing uses layers to form a part. 3D printers read the parts as a single two-dimensional layer at a time rather than a whole single part. The working of 3D printers as shown in Fig. 1 is based on the fact that they are designed to read Standard Tessellation Language (STL) /uniFB01le type. The sustainable aspects of 3D Printing such as less material wastage, less post processing and very less cost even for manufacturing complex parts makes 3D Printing a technology of the future. The other sustain- able aspects include the potential of 3D printing to reuse plastics, recycle and reduce emissions. The technology is also capable of producing de- signs with complex and optimized geometries, which help in developing https://doi.org/10.1016/j.susoc.2021.09.004 Received 28 May 2021; Received in revised form 11 August 2021; Accepted 8 September 2021 Available online 7 October 2021 2666-4127/© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ) sustainability especially in areas such as marine conserva- tion, wind energy, biomedical and aerospace applications. 3D Printing is creating new ways/malin/ of manufacturing that could save money and lead to a whole new level of economies of scale. It could replace many existing industrial practices with more efficient alternatives boosting the growth of the industry and provide deep insights for future scope. We believe that 3D printing holds the key to a socially responsible, environmentally conscious, and more fem Jake F. Simmonds /UUID:79c69810-e9a0-4d8b-809f-1e8e7310002b/12978005

Detailed Answer:

3D printing and AM (Additive Manufacturing) are processes utilized to create prototypes and structures in three dimensions using digital files. Solid modelling, a component of Computer-Aided Design, serves as the basis for additive technologies, with solid modelling data utilized to create layers of thin cross-sectional areas in additive models. This layer-based manufacturing enables complex shapes and surfaces that are otherwise challenging to achieve through conventional methods.

A machine can be deemed a 3D printer if it possesses three properties: three-dimensional, additive, and layer-based. Additive processes involve adding different substances to create the desired substance, while subtractive processes involve starting with a larger substance and removing everything that is not needed. Examples of subtractive manufacturing include manual wood carving and CNC machining, while 3D printing is an example of additive manufacturing.

3D printers create products by welding or fusing material together layer by layer based on the design file. This is possible since 3D printers read STL files, which represent the design in a collection of triangles that convey the surface geometry of the object. The 3D printing process can reduce manufacturing waste, post-processing, and cost, and it has the potential to reuse plastics, recycle, and reduce emissions. Furthermore, 3D printing can produce complex geometries that enhance sustainability in areas such as marine conservation, wind energy, biomedical, and aerospace applications.

3D printing offers a more efficient alternative to industrial practices, and it has the potential to provide deep insights for future developments. It has the capability to revolutionize manufacturing by enabling cost-effective and efficient production of complex structures, which could lead to significant economic and environmental benefits.